# An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns 
Performing analysis on Kickstarter data to uncover trends 
## Overview of Project
The fundraising goal for Louise's play Fever was met in a short amount of time and there is an opportunity to learn from prior campaigns so Louise can compare them to her experience. This will create a better understanding of the correlation between outcomes and other variables as a way to ensure success when launching more fundraising campaigns. These analyses will help Louise with her fundraising in the future.

### Purpose
An improved understanding between outcomes and different variables when launching fundraising goals will further aid Louise on her campaigns. Since Louise recently finished her fundraising goal, an analysis of prior fundraisers will provide insight into how the decisions she made lead to the outcome of her fundraiser. Though there are many possible variables, choosing a small number of them will provide a clear and concise understanding so that better decisions can be made. 

## Analysis and Challenges
There are many variables that come into play when launching campaigns and they all can have an impact on the outcome; however, it can be challenging to account for the influence from every possible variable. One approach to avoid complicating the analysis is choosing a small number of variables to assess a relationship. Two that can be chosen are launch dates and funding goals for plays. In Louise’s example, the time when she launched the fundraising campaign for her play could have an impact on the outcome. Analyzing the launch date from prior campaigns will help her determine whether she launched her campaign at an ideal time. She also had a modest fundraising goal for her play so an analysis can be performed on how the size of the fundraising goal impacts the outcome. Perhaps her fundraising goal was either too big or too small. 


### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
An analysis of outcomes based on launch date was performed by utilizing the previously collected theater data in the Kickstarter spreadsheet. That information was used to create a table (Table #1- Theater Outcomes Based on Launch Date) to assess whether a theater fundraising campaign either succeeded, failed, or was canceled depending on the month of the year. A graph (Graph #1- Theater Outcomes Based on Launch Date) was then created from that information for visualization purposes and to observe the trend. Table #1 and Graph #1 can be referenced in accompanying files. 
 
According to the collected data about successful theater outcomes, it is evident that the month of May had the most successful theater fundraising campaigns with a total of 111 succeeding. The month of June had the second highest with 100 successful outcomes for theater fundraising campaigns. According to the data, December had the lowest amount of successful campaigns with a total of 37. There were a total of 839 successful campaigns across all 12 months. 
When it comes to failed campaigns, the data shows that May also had the most campaigns fail with 52 and then that was followed by July and October which each had 50 total failed campaigns. November had the lowest amount of failed campaigns with a total of 31. There were a total of 493 failed campaigns across all 12 months. 
The data shows that the number of canceled campaigns remained relatively consistent across every month, but January had the most number of canceled campaigns with a total of 7 and July had the lowest number of canceled campaigns with a total of 1. There were a total of 37 canceled campaigns across all 12 months. 

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
A second analysis was performed by utilizing the previously collected data in the Kickstarter spreadsheet to assess outcomes based on fundraising goals specifically for plays. That information was used to create a table (Table #2- Outcomes Based on Goals) to compare how the size of the fundraising goal for a play impacted the outcome. The information was arranged to observe how many play fundraising campaigns were successful, how many failed, and how many were canceled. Calculations were made to determine the percentage of the total that each of those categories represented. Then a graph (Graph #2- Outcomes Based on Goals) was created from that information for visualization purposes and to observe the trend. Table #2 and Graph #2 can be referenced in accompanying files. 

According to the collected data, there were many projects with fundraising goals that ranged from less than $1,000 to $14,9999, compared to the number of projects with fundraising goals $15,000 and higher. There were 141 successful projects out of 186 total projects less than $1000, 388 successful projects out of 534 total projects between $1,000 and $4,999, 93 successful projects out of 169 total projects between $5,000 to $9,999, and 39 successful projects out of 72 total projects between $10,000 to $14,999. There were also 4 successful projects with a goal range of $35,000 to $39,000, however there were only 6 total projects in that category; there were also 2 successful projects between $40,000 and $44,999 out of 3 total projects. The data shows that the outcome for a play was successful if the goal was less than $15,000 or between $35,000 to $44,999 since the plays with the goals in those categories represented goals greater than 50% of the total projects. 
When a project goal was between $15,000 and $19,999, the data showed that there were an equal number of successful and failed project outcomes. 
On the other hand, the data showed project goals of $20,000 or higher failed greater than 50% of the time, which demonstrates an inverse trend compared to successful outcomes because more projects failed when the fundraising goal was $20,000 and higher. The only exception is when the fundraising goal was between $35,000 and $44,999. There were 11 failed projects between $20,000 and $24,999 out of 20 total projects, 4 failed projects between $25,000 and $29,999 out of 5 total projects, 8 failed projects between $30,000 and $34,999 out of 11 total projects, 1 failed project between $45,000 and $49,999 out of 1 total project, and 14 failed projects that were greater than $50,000 out of 16 total projects in that category. 
The data also showed that there were no canceled fundraising goals for any plays so it cannot be determined whether the size of the fundraising goal has an impact on canceled outcomes. 

### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
The data that was collected provided Lousie with some form of analysis to have better outcomes for fundraising campaigns however there are still potential limitations with the analysis. Theater outcomes based on launch date might provide a general view of the ideal time to launch a campaign however it did not specifically address the best time to launch a fundraising campaign for a play. Also, it did not consider the genre of the play since different genres could appeal to different crowds or demographics that would result into a successful outcome. Another variable to account for is the city that the fundraising campaign is launched in or where the play with be produced. For example, someone in Omaha, Nebraska might like the plot of a play, but they have no interest in financially supporting it if it will be all the way in London and therefore logistically challenging to attend the play. There are still many variables to account for but the information already analyzed will still help give Louise a better idea about when to release her next fundraising campaign. 
The finances of a play, like how much a play will cost to produce, is another critical element to a fundraising campaign so that information is also important to analyze. The limitation to the analysis that was completed is that it did not consider how many people donated to the fundraising campaign in each of the goal categories. That information would be helpful because Louise could better target her fundraising campaign to certain group of people that are more willing to donate to play fundraising campaigns. A breakdown of the demographics would help tell a better story for Louise. 
## Results
The data that was collected and analyzed still helped tell a story and establish a trend so that Louise can enhance her fundraising campaigns in the future. One conclusion that can be made from the Launch Date data is that the best outcome is when fundraising goals began in the month of May. Another conclusion is that the worst time to start a fundraising campaign is in the month of May, followed by July and October. The month of May appears to have the most fundraising campaigns launched and therefore had the most successful and the most failed campaigns. Other factors must account for both the success and failure of the campaigns in the month of May. 
From the outcomes based on goals, an inference can be made that the cheaper a project goal then the more likely it is to succeed. With the information about failed projects, an inference can be made that a higher project goal resulted in more failed outcomes. More analysis should be conducted to determine the correlation between launch date and fundraising campaign goal. 
Although a large amount of information from Kickstarter was collected, there is a possible limitation that not enough information about previous fundraising campaigns for plays was collected. The data seems to only contain data from a short amount of years so there would be an advantage to collecting data from other years, though it may not all be readily available through Kickstarter. More so, there may be other sources of fundraising goals that did not operate through the Kickstarter platform and therefore that information should also be collected and analyzed. Furthermore, there may be other pathways to carryout fundraising goals that do not go through the Kickstarter interface. 
Other possible table or graphs that can be created might be the outcomes of a play fundraiser compared to how many backers there were or what the average donation was for each play. Another table or graph can be made using the outcome and how long the fundraising campaign lasted for- perhaps the length of the fundraiser impacted the outcome of the campaign. There is much to analyze so that Louise can make the best decision. 
In conclusion, there are some trends that can be observed from the information collected and analyzed, such as launching a fundraising campaign in May with a goal of less than $15,000 would lead to a successful outcome, however that information may not be enough for Louise to make the best decision about her future fundraising campaigns.  
